Okay.
So as we have freshly understood what are what is a DFC and what is package?
So we are like ready to understand what are our articulation points in bridges.
But first of all, explain you what are these point and what are bridges?
But these are small requests from you all.
We will only move forward once you have understood basics of dynamic programming.
Of course, dining programming is not necessarily here because I'll be explaining dynamic programming
on my part too.
Right.
But again, think if you know a little basics of dynamic programming, it will ease your understanding,
put articulation points in bridges.
So what are the required topics to understand?
Articulation points in bridges?
We should know what is RDF history?
We should know more is a package that we have discussed in the previous sections.
Eight And after both of these we have to apply a little bit of dynamic programming so don't get like
confusing all.
Scared, of course.
Right.
Because I'll be explaining it in a very easy manner.
And of course, dining programming will be used, but you won't be feeling it, right?
Okay.
This is dynamic programming.
Nothing like that.
It's very easy, but it will go one by one.
First of all, let us understand what is articulation point and what are bridges right then?
Articulation point.
According to their definition, we can see that it's a vertically interconnected graph.
It's an articulation point if and only if the deletion of the vertex V together with all the edges and
incidental v disconnects the graph into two or more non empty components.
So the definition simply means that if I were vertex V in my graph and I am actually removing that vertex
and all the edges associated with it, whatever that is, which was associated with that vertex, I'm
removing them from the graph.
Right.
So that means there is no component of.
It didn't make it afraid.
Yeah.
So I hope you understood the definition of articulation.
Point eight.
So if I'm removing it, the graph is divided into more number of components.
That means if I remove their niche, then the vertices that were the buds between the vertices that
were already there.
Now that part is normal.
They are disconnected.
And what is a bridge?
Bridges in it.
In the graph.
Of course, if an, if, if and only if, removing it disconnects the graph.
Again, it's a very simple definition.
Articulation point is a.
No right.
It is a vertex of the graph, but bridge is the edge.
Okay.
So I have I have some few examples here.
Let us discuss what are articulation points in these and what are bridges and.
Then in the next, Biden will understand how do we actually find them out?
Using the history back ages and then reprogram?
Well, of course, guys, it's a little, little heavy topic.
Not that much.
Right.
But still, you need to spend time on this to understand it.
And.
Yeah.
So let's understand.
What is our adolescent point and what are bridges?
So in the first figure, this one.
In the first week of phase one, two and three.
Right.
So let's draw over articulation points first.
If I remove edge one, then what is the remaining graph?
The remaining graph is to entry.
Eight because I've removed edge one, but I removed Vertex one and its component and its adjusting edges
also read its incident that its connected edges from the graph and what is the remaining properties
to entry.
And those are connected.
Eight.
Well one being articulation point.
Think about the definition, guys.
What is an articulation point if and only if the deletion of the vertex would be together with all the
edges.
Disconnect the graph into two or more empty components.
Is it disconnecting the graph into more component naught eight here?
Also the graph ID one component here.
Also the graphs.
One company.
No one will not be in our deflation point.
Another will do another try.
They because the number of connected components in the graph stays the same.
Eight.
Now let's let us figure out the bridges and the first figure bridges.
So what a bridge is in the first figure, its name that is also one, two and three will struggle with
the first two.
If I remove the bridge, what is the remaining graph?
I have this graph.
Hey, look, guys, again, the same definition.
Is the graph disconnected?
No.
That is the graph divided into more number of connected components.
Right.
Will this be a bridge?
No.
Right.
Also, as you can see in the first figure, there is no budget and there is no articulation point because
even after removing them, the graph and the number of components in the graph, the number of connected
components in the graph remains the same.
Okay, let's talk about the second figure ways.
So as begins in the first figure, we had a cycle and all the nodes were a part of the cycle.
In the second figure, we will see that we have this.
Do you write?
We have a tree over here.
We have n minus one edges and nodes and it is completely connected.
Also, we will have further discussion on trees in the coming sections.
We'll discuss lots, lots about trees.
They loads of about trees.
We'll so.
Tell me that.
Let's remove some words.
So let's remove Vertex seven rule.
If I didn't move vertex seven, guess what will be the remaining three?
It will be one, two and five, four.
Three and six.
Eight after removing seven as the graph divided into more connected components.
No.
Right.
Because so we had one connected component and now also we have one connected gun eight.
But let's remove.
So let's move to.
Well to end it at disengages.
These were the four ideas associated with it.
Earlier we had one connected component.
Now we have one, two, three and four connected components.
We have four connected components at eight.
As we can see, the graph is been divided into more number of connected components.
So two is the articulation point.
Greece.
Well, let's talk about some other edge, some other note.
Very simple guys.
Again, I'm repeating the same thing.
Remove the node if you want to find out whether or not it is articulation, point or not, just remove
it and then check the number of connected components in the graph.
Hey.
Two, two, three, five, four and six.
Let's talk about four again.
If I do move forward.
The upper part will be separated from six.
The graph will be disconnected and it will be divided into more connected components.
Well, I hope this has been clear.
Let's talk about bridge.
Here we can see that every edge is a bridge aid because removing any of the edges will divide the graph
into more connected components.
It will disconnect the tree.
Right, because there is no signal in this graph.
Eight.
Well, so there can be this way.
Guys like this can be an approach to like if there is no such constraint limit, there's no such time
limit and there is no such complexity limit that you have to do it in a good complexity.
What we can do is we can simply say whether or not is an articulation point or bridges by.
Firstly we have a graph find objects and metal connected components.
Then you want to find out whether a node x is a articulation point or not.
Just make a graph without Nordics and it's a distinct edges.
Now find a number of connected components so the number of connected component increases.
Then it was an articulation point.
Otherwise it was not an articulation point.
And we all know how to find the number of connected components we can find it using.
Be a phrase, we can find it using DFS, we can find it using DSU.
There are lots of approaches to solve this.
Well, guess.
So the approach that I'm discussing right now is very simple.
There is no no DFS genomic guest, no dating, roaming, nothing is involved.
Right.
But of course, we won't always get the easiest approaches right in the pudding.
Don't.
In the contest.
They go all those rounds for those contests.
We need something special, right?
So that the complexity of my solution is still less, for that will be using the above approaches and
will discover a new way to find out this are relation points on bridges and of course guys it's very
interesting very, very interesting.
Like the first time when I and a student I felt very great.
Yeah, I actually very pleased about it.
Okay, so let's move forward.
Let's move on to the third figure.
So guys here we can see we have psyches, we don't have cycles.
It's a mixed, mixed up figure, right?
In the third one.
In the third figure, grace is one and our relation point no.
Right.
Because if I remove it again the graph is still connected, is true in our relation point.
Yes.
Eat, eat, do is a part of a cycle.
We can see one, two and three are a part of a cycle.
But to do in our relation point.
Hey, guys.
I used to be an articulation point, because if I remove two, then one, three.
Is a separate graph and four, five, six, seven is a separate graph.
We have two components here.
If I remove two energies, right, it's strong about three.
So again, if I remove three, it's not an articulation.
Being eight, removing four will be an articulation point.
Five is an articulation.
No.
Five is not an articulation point.
Six will not be an articulation point again.
Seven will not be in our relation point.
Will.
But if the disturbance now goes on, as we ever understood that these water articulation points and
water bridges will weaken.
Okay, so let's throw our bridges in the third figure.
Is this edge?
This one?
Is it a bridge?
No.
This is a bridge.
No, this is a bridge.
No, no, no, no.
But is this a bridge, guys?
Yes.
So this edge, this particular edge is a bridge, right.
Because it is dividing graph into more number of connected components.
Well, it's very easy, right?
So this is a good for you guys.
I'm not explaining this whether or not it is an articulation point.
So but it is this.
Just do it yourself.
Now it's very easy to figure it out.
Now the main logic is it's dividing it off into more connected components.
Will you guys.
I were thinking essays for you, basically.
So after the.
Tutorial ends, you have to think that if a node is a part of a cycle.
Let me know if a node.
If it is a part of a cycle.
Will it be an articulation point?
But then will it not to be an articulation point?
Let's not not be an articulation point, right?
If a node is a part of a cycle, then will not be an articulation point always.
Or it can be an articulation point.
You need to think about this and similar for other edges, but if an edge is a part of forsaken, then
will it be an articulation point or will it be a braided alternate?
I just think about this and like make various graphs and try to figure it out.
Well, I'll be discussing this in the next part.
So thank you, guys.
In the next book.